To run this program, save a copy of your mzXML file to this folder. Open the command prompt
and navigate into this folder. The commands should be something similar to:

>cd Desktop
>cd VanKrevelen

If you need to move back a file level, use the "cd .." command.

(if running on OSX these commands are case sensative)

Then to run the program, run the command

>>python driver.py yourfile.mzXML

where you replace yourfile.mzXML with your actual file name including the mzXML extension. 
Note: You need to be running Python 2.7

The script will run through your mzXML file and will end by opening your default web browser (if connected
to the internet) to the formula calculator web page. You will also find two new txt files in your folder
with the same name as your mzXML file but with -neg and -pos added to the end and now with the .txt file
extension added to the end. 

To properly configure the calculator we recommend changing the mass distribution to 5. Also, uncheck the
Monolsotopic composition boxes except for natural composition.  If you are looking at negative mode
scans, set the ionization to +1 (additional H+) and for positive mode scans use -1 (less one H+). This
configuration may vary based on your equipment. 

Go to the "Query by:" section and choose either the yourfile-neg.txt or yourfile-pos.txt file and then 
make sure the "Email Results to:" box is checked and your email is entered. Select "Query Masses" from
the bottom of the page and await your results. This can take a couple minutes. If your results are 
displayed or you never get an email, you may need to copy the contents of your text file and paste them
into the query box provided. Each mass must be one its own line.

Once you have recieved your results, copy and paste all of them into Excel or a similar spreadsheet 
program. ***Do not copy any of the titles, your first row should start with a a mass*** They will likely all paste as a single column. If this is the case, go to the "Data" ribbon and
select "Text to Columns" while column A is selected with all the data in it. Excel will then prompt you
to select either "delimited" or "fixed width". Select "Fixed width".  Make sure that the elemental
information will begin in the fourth row (D) and that there won't be spaces before any of the elemental
data. Be sure to give some padding after the data as well, some compounds can be quite long. This should be fairly similar to how Excel naturally sets up the divisions, but may require some 
adjustment. Once that is complete, got to file>>>save as and then save the file as a .csv file. 

Return back to the command prompt. Make sure you are still in the VanKrevelen folder and then enter:

>>python driver2.py yourNewFile.csv

Where you replace yourNewFile.csv with your actual file name including the .csv extension. This should
generate your Van Krevelen Diagram. A new window will open displaying your plot and you can use the save
button to save it in a convenient format and location. The script will stop running once you close the 
display.





Some notes about the technology specifications of this script: 

Uses Python 2.7 - unsure of compadibility with 3.5, but uncompadible with 3.4
All packages used can be obtained through downloading the Anaconda Python Distribution from 
	Continuum Analytics. 
Depending on how your computer is configured, you may be able to run the scripts by using the same
	commands listed above but with out the leading word "python".







